Chrome OS, a Quick Review
==========================
:date: 2014-12-20
:tags: Chrome OS, review, git

It’s the holidays, and that means you might be considering a new laptop.
You’ve probably heard about Chrome OS. Basically it’s Google’s web focused
operating system, and it runs on cheap laptops. I owned the original
chromebook but it was pretty underpowered so I didn’t feel it would be fair to
review it The one I bought a year ago was $250 US dollars,
(http://www.amazon.om/gp/product/B00FNPD1OY ) and you can’t actually buy that 
version any longer. Basically it has 4 gigs of RAM, a 16 gig hard drive and a
1.4 ghz cpu. So I’ve been using this laptop every day for mostly simple tasks
such as reading email, browsing the internet, watching videos, and
occasionally working via SSH. So as a light use machine it’s pretty great.
It gets the job done, and is generally fast enough for most tasks. I know that
a lot of people will consider this as a major selling point, and say that for
250 dollars you can’t really complain, but let’s talk about some things that
only someone using the machine for a while would notice, and what the major
drawbacks are.

Let’s start with the CPU, it’s okay, but it’s not great so sometimes
things are a bit slow. Having a small hard drive is also tough, 
16 gigs of space basically means I don’t use the Chromebook for anything 
serious and even if I wanted to I couldn’t because support is pretty bad for
the device. It’s made to browse the internet and use internet apps, and that’s
basically it. Usually this is okay, but sometimes you’re out of luck. A great
example of this was in early 2014. I had to spend the night in an airport, and
figured ‘no big deal, I will do some work, I have my chromebook on me.’ but
this wasn’t the case. The chromebook was unable to connect to the wi-fi
available in the airport, why this is I don’t know, but I tried to
troubleshoot it for over an hour without any luck. After that I tried
tethering off my phone, and it still didn’t work even though my other devices
could connect to both access points. Without internet the chromebook was
crippled. Even apps that claimed they could run offline really could only do
so when you had them open prior to disconnecting. I was screwed. I couldn’t
work on a presentation, and it was generally useless. This is a major problem.
Especially since you can’t SSH to the chromebook itself (unless you have it in
developer mode), so no writing code while the device is offline to commit
later. This was the first time the chromebook had let me down after owning it
for 5 months. It was horrifying to realize I was basically out of luck with
the laptop I had, at that point it was a 250 dollar brick with a screen. I was
seriously regretting not having put a Linux distro on a thumb drive or SD card.

Moving back to using the chromebook itself, I use f.lux, twilight, and several
other apps that adjust the lighting on my monitor/screens so that I can easily
sleep at night. Unfortunately the chrome devs don’t care about this
(https://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=217173 ) and it’s been
an issue since October 2012! It’s infuriating that this is something they care
so little about. This lack of functionality means I can’t use my chromebook
prior to going to bed at all or I will have a hard time falling asleep. This
is currently my biggest issue with the device since it’s basically just a
laptop I use at home, but it shows that the development team either isn’t
serious, or doesn’t care enough to open this functionality up so people can
write their own app (and believe me they would, Integers of K wrote:
https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/glux/hinolicfmhnjadpggledmhnffommefaf?hl=en as a
workaround where it tries to modify the code on every page) but it’s
frustrating and pathetic that this sort of issue has been open for so long.

So you’re probably reading through this and thinking ‘that is it? Those are
you complaints? This seems great for 250 bucks.’ and honestly it is. If I
could get an equivalent laptop running Linux I would.. Oh wait I can. Ignore
the chromebook and Chrome OS unless Google actually gets serious about it, and
instead just buy a cheap laptop (maybe even a chromebook) and put Linux on it.
The devices themselves are great, but I'm not completely sold on the OS yet. It
just doesn't meet my needs as a user that would like to do more than just
browse the internet and read email.
