Every Company Should Have a 401(k)
==================================
:date: 2018-10-16
:tags: books

I've been searching for a job for a while now and there's on benefit that is
constantly getting overlooked, and that's a 401(k). In the past setting up,
managing, and running a 401k was difficult or you had to bring in some big
bank to handle it for you. It was also expensive to administer the plan which
made it hard for small orgs. This is no longer the case and I believe that
every startup that doesn't offer a 401k is potentially missing out on a very
simple and relatively cheap employee benefit that makes your org a lot more
attractive to potential employees.

If you're not familiar with a 401k it's a type of investment account (take a
look at Nerdwallet: https://www.nerdwallet.com/blog/investing/what-is-a-401k/
or Wikipedia for more details: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/401(k)) that
allows you to invest a significant amount of money before you're taxed and at
this point it's $18,500. This not only sets you up for future
retirement but also reduces your tax burden so every dollar you earn is worth
more. It's a significant amount of savings for most IT professionals and it
makes the total compensation package of the position people are filling that
much more attractive. Some companies do even better than simply offering one
and they'll match a portion of your salary which let's you go above the
$18,500 limit and this makes the job even more attractive!

So why doesn't every company offer a 401(k)? If it's so beneficial for
employees (even without the match) then shouldn't it be front and center
on every job posting? Well sadly that's not the case currently. I
would say 75% of the companies I've talked to don't offer a 401(k), and if
they do the recruiter has almost no details about the plan itself. I'm not
sure if that's because they don't contribute to their own 401(k), or if they
simply don't have all the details, but it's quite baffling.

Companies don't offer them for a variety of reasons and most aren't valid any
longer. It used to be that setting up and managing the plan was too annoying,
there were bad fund, or worst of all high fees associated with simply having
the plan which either the employer would take on, or they would pass on to
employees.

That's no longer the case and if someone uses this justification they're
simply uninformed or too cheap to investigate. Companies like Guideline
(https://www.guideline.com/) now offer amazing 401(k) options that are
extremely cheap for both organizations and employees (For full disclosure
I have a 401(k) through Guideline). They charge employers $500 to do
the initial setup then $8 a month per employee to keep the plan running. This
is ridiculously cheap when you consider that offering a 401(k) as a benefit to
your employees can potentially save them upwards of $5000 in taxes and set
them up for retirement. On top of that as a participant they don't charge me
anything to use the service and all I pay are the standard fees associated
with buying the funds. The offer a variety of funds including Vanguard Index
funds which are basically the best of the best when it comes to low fees and
excellent returns. It's a no brainer as an employee to contribute and it
should be a no brainer for companies to set up with one of the companies
offering 401(k)s.

So if your company still isn't offering a 401(k) it's time to talk about why
and really understand if you're employer is simply too cheap to set up a
401(k) or if they have other concerns that aren't being addressed. It's
important that everyone looks out for their own financial future, so talk to
your employer about setting up a 401(k) with a company such as Guideline. It's
going to cost them less than they're going to spend on a flight and hotel for
the next person they interview and it will make both existing employees as
well as potential hires much more receptive to the position.

Having a 401(k) at your organization is huge, and when you're knowledgeable
about what it offers, how much it costs, and how much it can improve the
benefits of your organization there's no reason not to spend a bit of time
looking into the options. If you really want to go above and beyond as an
organization and impress potential employees even more you can offer a
percentage match based on salary (and make sure that if you do this you
"true up" so that more financially savvy employees who front-load their
401(k) recieve the same match instead of doing a monthly match). These
types of programs are actually really cheap (a 5% match of $175,000 is only
$8750) and are a huge benefit that many employees will be driven to take
advantage of. Potential candidates will also find them extremely appealing.

So, let's bullet point this real quick if I haven't already sold you on one of
the best benefits you can offer employees with a lower cost than printing up
t-shirts, flying someone to your office, or giving everyone ridiculous swag
coffee mugs they really don't want.

- A 401(k) is actually really cheap to set up now, costing as little as $500
  with a monthly fee of $8 per employee, and no extra fees for employees.
- With many of the startup based orgs out there it's mostly set it and forget
  it for your US employees with great funds available for them.
- Employees can save a lot of cash when you offer a 401(k) both to secure
  their financial future and save them money on taxes which makes your job
  offer much more appealing.
- Offering a 401(k) isn't as common as you think and offering one is a huge
  benefit to many employees. Matching a salary percentage is icing on the cake
  and really cheap in the long run for employee retainment.
- Being familiar with what your 401(k) offers shows potential employees that
  you really care about their financial future and that you want everyone to
  take advantage of these benefits.
- Everyone who works at the company can take advantage of a 401(k) from the
  CEO to your support staff.
- Did I already mention how cheap it is? I've legitimately offered to pay the
  fee to set it up at an organization because it would save me that much money
  on my taxes. It's a no brainer.

Hopefully this has sparked some interest in at least a few people to take a
closer look and truly recognize how cheap these 401(k) services have become in
terms of what they charge. If you're reading this and you're at a company that
doesn't already have a 401(k) consider talking to your HR department. If
you're a CEO or other C level exec, you should probably talk to finance about
setting one up immediately. Providing you company and fellow employees with
details regarding how it saves everyone more money, and helps bring in talent
can be a huge eye opener for many people throughout your leadership team. The
worst thing they can say is no, and then when you decide to leave at some
point in the future you can add "no 401(k)" when they ask why to really show
just how important securing your financial future is.
