Book Reviews - October
======================
:date: 2018-11-07
:tags: books

October turned out to be a both a pretty good month for completing books, but
also a bit of a bummer for various reasons. I didn't make my goal of
completing 4 books but I came pretty close. On top of that I definitely
enjoyed the books I did finish so that was nice.

Fuzzy Nation
------------

Another relatively light but enjoyable read by John Scalzi. This one was a bit
predictable in terms of where it would generally go, but had some good
revelations in the middle that made it worth reading to the end. I've been
enjoying a fair number of Scalzi books lately and while I don't think this is
his best work (it's not quite as inventive or original as some of his other
books) it's definitely worth reading, especially since you can finish it in
just a few hours. This one would be great to take on a trip.

The Girl With All the Gifts
---------------------------

This was a pretty interesting post apocalypse/zombie style book that went off
of the normal path which I appreciated. I've grown pretty tired of zombie
books so as certain things were revealed in this one I wasn't sure whether I
was going to finish it or not. I ended up finishing it and think it was worth
my time. The premise is pretty original and the ending is a refreshing take on
your typical zombie survival story.

Semiosis
--------

The first failure for this month. Part of it came from it being a survival
novel, and the rest was mostly the scenario and the characters. Due to the
narrative structure of the book (it's generation based) you have to be okay
with constantly switching perspectives. While I can get behind this I don't
feel like the world building was satisfying enough. It felt both rushed and
really slow paced at the same time, there was a lot of nothing happening and
while I can appreciate that world building it just didn't feel like it was
actually building a world in this book. Every chapter I read was a slog to get
through and I found myself becoming easily distracted and not drawn in at
all by what was happening in the story. It was pretty boring and I was pretty
bummed out by this because the world could have been interesting, but it was
like we were exploring the most dull and uninteresting parts of it.

Pandora's Star
--------------

I listened to the audio book version of this one and it's the first book I
haven't finished due to technical issues. The audio quality of this book was
so bad I couldn't bring myself to finish it. I'm using Libby to listen to the
audio books I check out, and while quality could generally be higher (it's a
bit compressed which is annoying but understandable) this one was just awful.
It was like they recorded it for a cassette tape, then someone took that tape,
converted it to CD, and then they took that audio and compressed it for the
digital version. It was so bad I was sometimes having a hard time
understanding the narrator. The story was okay, but I was so distracted by
having to constantly focus on the audio to an extreme extent that I just gave
up on it.

Senlin Ascends
--------------

Another failure for this month, I made it about 40% of the way through Senlin
Ascends before I gave up. I wanted to branch out a bit this month and read
books that typically wouldn't be in my wheelhouse, but this one plus Semiosis
is making me reconsider that decision. The story in Senlin Ascends wasn't bad
but it also wasn't gripping. It's basically the story of a naive introvert
breaking out of his shell, but once again we get into too many details. This
book is nearly 450 pages long, and in the ~200 pages I read very little occurs
and what does occur is just odd. I understand the need to build the story and
to try and create excitement through events, but the events just make you go
"huh, I wish I could learn more about this thing than continuing the story of
this boring little man and his uninteresting mission". The main issue is that
the tower itself is more interesting than the character, which I'm sure was
the intent, but the main character is such a boring dullard that you can't
empathize with him at all so you just feel like an outsider in both the
setting and the character. I was pretty bummed by this one and it took me a
while to even make it through what I did.

The Well of Ascension
---------------------

This month's big book is the second in the Mistborn trilogy and continued an
excellent story though it's not as strong as the first. I listened to the
audio book version just like in the first book, and the narration was once
again excellent. The story in this one digs into the relationship between
characters more and some political aspects that brought it down a bit, but I
still enjoyed it overall and am looking forward to the third book. I
understand the reasoning behind many of the choices in the book and why it
needed to be set in the scenario that it was, but I still found some of the
plot points to be a bit dull, and there wasn't as much general excitement and
interested as in the first. Hopefully the third book will be a great finale
to the trilogy.
