Vegetarian Meats Just aren't Cutting it Yet
===========================================
:date: 2017-03-21
:tags: cooking, food

Over the past few years I've been trying to eat more and more vegetarian meals
both to reduce how much meat I eat, and reduce costs. Bulking and cutting for
physical fitness are expensive endeavors, so any time I can reduce costs, or
reduce eating so much meat I explore them. I've been making things with ground
meat substitutes for a while now and I generally like them. There have been
more and more companies coming out with products, and they're a decent
substitute for meat.

Right now adoption of these kinds of products is pretty low. The main two I use
for ground meat substitutes are a 'crumbles' product from Boca, and a ground
meat substitute from Beyond Meats. I also eat a good number of the products
that a local company called Field Roast makes. These products are not as cheap
as you would think considering they contain no meat. When not on sale the Boca
crumbles are typically $6 for 12 oz, and Beyond meat is $6 for 11 oz. I
believe that the cost versus the amount you're buying are some of the main
reasons these products aren't catching on.

To start with why is anything in a quantity less than 1 lb? This means you
can't easily substitute it in for a recipe that calls for ground beef, and
even worse you have to buy 2 packages to get a pound. This leaves you with
extra product that you had to pay more for, and that you have to leave in your
freezer, so realistically these products are about $8 per pound. This is not
a realistic price difference for most people to consider these products over
ground beef or turkey. I often times choose turkey over the available options.

I know a large part of this is simply due to economics of scale, but companies
like Boca have been around for a long time, and these meat substitutes are
sometimes discounted as much as 50%, so why are they so expensive at other
points? Alternatively Beyond Meats sometimes offers a $1 coupon, but that
still puts their product at over $7 per lb which is way too much considering
the alternatives.

There are other products available such as TVP (textured vegetable protein),
and tofu, but these aren't going to be as easily incorporated into the
American diet as these meat substitutes. So how can manufacturers get over
this? To begin with they need to look at reducing costs, either through heavy
discounts, or trying to build their scaling up more to reduce their overhead.
I have no idea what the breakdown of costs looks like in these products, but
any sort of advantage they can offer there would go a long way towards getting
these products on to more tables.

In addition to this manufacturers need to stop selling their product in
packages that are less than 1 pound. I have no idea who thought this was a
good idea, or even why they do this. It just makes the entry level too high
and makes it inefficient for people to purchase their products.

As an enthusiast consumer of these products I deal with it to try them, but
these companies are going to have to step up their game if they expect the
average person to choose meat substitutes over meat and they need to make that
barrier to entry as low as possible. I believe they can definitey do it, they
just need to make sure they're catering to the average consumer.
